Many techies are surprised when I say that I mainly use Windows.
Why should someone who writes code and edit videos use Windows?
Two reasons: one, it is cheaper
And two: it allows me to bid.
So sit down because yes, I'm going to tell you how I made the emoji keyboard.
But I will first explain to you what the bidding is.
Bodging is a great British word that means making temporary repairs
A bodge is very clumsy. It is not elegant and will fall apart, but it will work.
And it will also continue to work as long as there is someone around who can bid it again if it breaks down.
Do you remember that part in Apollo 13 where they have to put the square in the round opening?
That is a bodge. Actually, it is even the most amazing bodge that man has ever played.
So great, that I'm curious if you can come up with a better one in the comments.
Because there is probably a book with the Greatest Bodges in History
that could be written and I would like to be the one who wrote that.
In any case, Bodging has always been the way I make things.
I have not studied computer technology and I do not write elegant solutions.
I wrap things together.
The most important parts - backups, password protection - I make sure that's all right ...
but things I make for fun, I bid.
I have been learning Bodgen correctly when I was filming a TV show a few years ago.
Some parts of that show have also appeared on the web, I will put the links in the description of the video,
but stay here for a while, because you need to know some context about it.
I was filming with two others. Colin Furze, who you might know from YouTube, that ridiculously large,
exploding physical things and he has the speed record for a mobility scooter on land.
And then you have Charles Yarnold, who
complex microelectronics with Arduinos and circuit boards.
Last year, for example, Charles made the Christmas tree of Barack Obama.
And people could online the colors and patterns
of the lights that change up and down. It was beautiful.
And my job in the TV show was to be the bridge between the two, between Colin and Charles,
so that the creations they had physically fabricated
were able to cooperate with the world and with each other.
So when we made a remote control for a horse -
I'm not joking, we have made a remote control to control a horse -
Colin has created the framework for a robot jockey,
and Charles all circuits and relays that pulled the reins when the signals were received,
and I made a smartphone app that enabled you to send these signals so that you could operate a horse.
And it worked!
And I probably had the easiest task of our three, because when I made things,
I had a undo button.
But the most important thing was the following: we made prototypes.
They had to work for 1 day of filming and we would be present for that.
But they HAD to work that day or the .TV show would be terrible
and then we would have wasted a lot of money. And we actually did not have time to make it there.
We worked days of 16 hours, 7 days a week and at the end of the production,
we did not have time anymore. We were bidding.
And the little software that helped me during that show and also after that, more than anything else
was called AutoHotKey.
AutoHotKey is such a good bodge tool that it is sometimes detected as a virus.
AutoHotKey was originally intended to be very, very simple:
it waits for a user to press a certain key,
and then start a program, type a somewhat longer text
or it performs a somewhat more complicated series of key commands that would otherwise be very difficult.
Suppose you want the F10 key to make your gaming person suddenly turn 180 degrees and fire his weapon.
Fine. No problem. AutoHotKey can take care of that.
The thing is, AutoHotKey has grown and grown and grown.
And the scripting language, the thing you have to write to make it work,
is terrible. I mean really bad.
It was meant to do very simple things,
and after a while it has been given the opportunity to do so much more.
It can read files, look at the color of individual pixels on the screen,
it can call arbitrary Windows DLLs,
it can analyze regular expressions (for those who know what they are).
But is all in a strange non-standard way that is inspired by Visual Basic.
AutoHotKey is a bodge that helps you create other bodges.
But it works!
And that means that instead of spending hours
with complicated issues at the level of the operating system,
you can just write a few lines of script and AutoHotKey will do the rest.
I used AutoHotKey in the TV show to control the activation of a skydiver's parachute.
And it worked. It worked well! I mean we had a backup, of course, but it worked.
The most amazing bodge I've played in that TV show - and I swear I do not lie -
was a voice synthesizer and the Sibelius program on a Mac,
remote controlled by AutoHotKey on a Windows PC,
blindly dragging his mouse around,
according to a pattern of pre-recorded movements sent via a remote desktop connection
while another PC sent commands via Wi-Fi to a Google Chrome screen that was open on the Mac,
because AppleScript and the similar tools on Mac that we needed to run in Sibelius
just were not fit to do such a ridiculous thing.
Besides, if someone proposes to use Linux ... No.
The world loves emoji.
I mean, seriously. Some people may not think so, logically.
I do not really use them myself, despite the keyboard,
but the world loves them. People click on titles about emoji.
If you put the word in a headline alone, you will get a lot more visitors.
Emoji is in fact the Donald Trump of computers. There you have a joke that will not last long.
Only the name itself is already clickbait, you do not have to add anything else.
My friend Matt - who is now behind the camera - say hello to Matt
[MATT: HI!]
Matt and I made a messenger last year that only used emoji. And almost no one used it.
Huh. That is not true.
A lot of people have used it ... for about five minutes.
Then they found out that the total was not practical and they never opened it again.
But you should see the media attention! All mails we received!
There were even confused investors who thought it was a startup
and they mailed to talk about shares.
This year there were film studios that offered an idea based on emoji
Unfortunately, not my idea, I wish I was the one who made it up ...
Because they got almost a million dollars for it.
The world is crazy about emoji
And now it comes: the concept of emoji as we know it today,
as it is on this keyboard, is a bodge.
You might know the story.
Every language around the world has its own way of making the translation
between letters and binary code - ones and zeroes - for computers.
However, Japan still has some room in its text encoding scheme.
They already have many more letters than the Latin alphabet,
so adding a few extra is not really a problem.
And then there's some smart engineer who thinks, "Wait a minute,
"We can also put small images in our text encoding so that we can send people images
"without actually sending these pictures,
"that normally consume a lot of bandwidth."
There are a number of competing versions of this,
but they have all remained within Japan until the Unicode Consortium was established.
The Unicode Consortium is tasked in every country
to find out how they encode text in binary
and to combine all these hundreds of different approaches into one global standard.
The most amazing aspect of this is that they are for the most part
really managed to get this done.
But Unicode was meant to be two-sided.
You convert text into Unicode and then convert it back to
the legecy system that your country used and nothing should have been lost.
So the Unicode team goes to Japan and thinks, "Oh, you ...
"You have images in your text, okay, er ...
"We can do something with that, we just add them to the standard as small ones.
"That's fine, there was already a smiley in. No one will notice."
And there is actually no one who really sees it, for a while ... Until Apple, who wants to sell iPhones in Japan,
emoji very quietly added as a ... pretty well hidden option.
But as soon as someone finds out;
"Hey, I can send small heaps of poo to my friends!"
And all their friends say, "Oh, wow, how can you turn it on?"
And then you suddenly have a sort of ready-made viral explosion of heaps of poo.
Which is rather noroviral you could say.
So suddenly the world has emoji and America has something like that; "What the hell is this?"
Because they are so used to consumer electronics, text encoding, everything
in America, for America.
They have no idea what the cherry blossom stamp is,
or why there is an emoji of a rice ball, but no burrito.
And they have no idea what a love hotel is. Do not ask.
Because remember; the originals were designed decades ago,
in Japan, for Japan and there are about 100 to 150 pieces of origin.
And Americans have something like that; "Why can not we have a burrito emoji?"
They think it is mainly something from Apple, not some international standard.
So the Unicode Consortium suddenly feels compelled to bid for new emoji.
So they have to bid the fall of all countries,
which is actually a very smart approach because you are actually
letters for abbreviations of the countries sent, but that is a separate story.
Then they realize that every phone manufacturer has made the standard emoji yellow or plain white
and that they have to bid something that is now known as skin tone modifiers.
And let's be honest: a family of one man, one woman, one boy and one girl is incredibly stereotyping,
so they have ensured that you can use something that they have called a "zero-width joiner" so that
all peroon characters that you like together come to a single family emoji.
You can do that on this keyboard with shift, something I am very proud of.
And yes, I know that there will be someone who will respond
"Ooh, it's political correctness that has gone mad."
No. No. Away with that. Away with that.
They are meant to be international.
They are meant to be cross-cultural, for everyone on earth.
There must be goddamn but these options are
and luckily there are more or less.
But the emoji we have today never have been designed as a worldwide thing.
They are a bid on a bodge on a bodge.
Smart and standardized, that's for sure.
But it is a patchwork of rules.
There are even Wingdings now.
That is why there is a floating man in a suit.
Because it was an American decision.
The last version of iOS has a modified version of it on board.
You could even add a skin tone fashion animal, but I'm not sure.
So I got the idea to make a physical emoji keyboard.
I first thought of making a complete Unicode version,
but then I realized that I would need hundreds and hundreds of keyboards.
But you can do all 1200/1300 emoji
that there are currently about 14 keypads fit. So here they are all.
The correct printing of the stickers with my inkjet printer at home was actually quite difficult,
but I succeeded. It was a matter of aligning everything correctly
and then spend hours working on sticking those damn things.
Fortunately, you can easily plug in 14 USB keyboards into a Windows PC by using USB hubs,
and I'm kind of like, "Yeah, okay, I have 14 keyboards now, that's cool."
But the problem is that all 14 keyboards, for most programs at least,
seen as the same keyboard.
You can not see which Z key is pressed,
only that somewhere on a Z key is printed.
Even AutoHotKey, my faithful size, could not help me with this.
So I went looking for other solutions.
There are low-level APIs (programming interfaces),
in Windows you show the rough raw input as it is sent over the cable.
Mac and Linux people will say in the comments; "Oh yeah...
"All you have to do is connect the flipflap needs to GKX port and then write--"
Nope. Nope. We will not do that.
Because I had come to install Visual Studio and I was thinking about it
actually learn how all these low-lever things work
and then I thought; "No. I'm using Windows, there's probably someone who has done this before.
And yes, I was right.
And between everything is a program called LuaMacros,
which is meant for the airplane simulation community.
People who play airplane simulators are great. They build entire cockpits
with a hundred different buttons so that everything is accurate with reality.
And if they can not afford it, they want to be able to plug in different keyboards
so that they at least have the feeling that they are sitting in a fake cockpit with a hundred buttons.
And so LuaMacros exists and it is great.
Because it is basically a modified version of Lua,
which is a weird but not too strange programming language
with a mountain of additional functions built in to be able to detect different keyboards and keystrokes.
And because it is a complete programming language, you can write full programs with it!
And that's fantastic! I mean, I was overjoyed.
I was just literally dancing in my flat when I first downloaded and performed Lua Macros.
That was partly because I was very happy
and partly because it had raised Aqua's first album, but that does not matter.
The program was able to detect individual keys from individual keyboards. Super!
So this was the plan: write down the code for each test.
That is the code that is sent to the operating system when a key is pressed.
Then put all of them in a list, from top left to bottom right, over an entire keyboard.
But ignore the complicated keys like Enter, Control and Alt.
Then, if a key is pressed, you take that code,
and look it up in the list and remember which position it is.
Add that number to the total keys in the list
multiplied by the number of the keyboard on which the key was pressed.
So if I impressed the fifth key on the second keyboard, that would be on the list with number 4
and keyboard number 1, because computers and programmers count from 0.
So: fifth test; 0, 1, 2, 3, 4.
Second keyboard: 0, 1.
Stop all these numbers in the formula and you know where you are on the list.
The reason why we count from 0 is because this makes calculation much easier.
Keyboard 1, multiplied by 94 keys in the list, plus 4
means that you want to have the 98th item on the list, counted from 0.
The comparison is just so much easier ...
and it did not work. It did not work.
It took me half an hour to find out why it did not work.
And the reason why it did not work is because Lua,
unlike any other modern programming language,
counts from 1 and not from 0!
Half an hour. It took me half an hour.
I improved the comparison and it worked. So I uploaded the complete list of emoji
in the order in which I had pasted them on the keys
and said to Lua Macros, "When you get a test,
"then calculate the number as we have just done,
"Find that number in the big list of emoji, drop that number of lines down
"and type that emoji."
And ... that did not work either,
because there are no emoji keys on a normal keyboard. Of course not.
Nobody has been crazy enough to make an emoji keyboard so far.
So there is no key combination that ensures that you get an emoji.
All right. There may have been scold at that moment. Just a little bit.
So. All right. What now? Well, it turns out that Windows has a way to write special characters,
and some of you will remember that. You hold the Alt key
and then key in your numbers on the numeric keypad.
That is not even from Windows. That dates back all the way to the original.
IBM PCs and BIOS and DOS, okay, it's decades old. But it still works.
Because Microsoft is obsessed with backwards compatibility
You still type it as if it were the late eighties.
But then they realized: "Oh, now we have all those Unicode characters."
so they have used a bid. They have expanded it to Unicode.
You do a quick adjustment of the registry, you can then Alt, plus sign
and then type a Unicode code and then a Unicode character will be typed, including emoji! Halelujah!
So I got that working and threw emoji in Microsoft Word. And I laughed.
And then I tried the same in a browser, for example for Twitter and that did not work either.
Because backwards compatibilty means that Unicode code points only work in text fields with rich formatting
fields that support formatting, not just plain text.
A few hours passed on this point. Almost there.
I got frustrated. So I took a break.
And I swear, somewhere during the cooking of dinner
it was as if a light was going on over my head
and the gods of bidding seemed to me and I shouted very loudly: "AutoHotKey!"
Yeah, that was not just stupid rumble about the bidding when I talked about AutoHotKey. AutoHotKey.
Because it can not see on which keyboard is printed, that does not matter.
What it can do is typing emoji. It can look in the list of emoji.
It can read a specific character of a rule and enter it somewhere.
Because it uses no keystrokes, but low-level Windows hassle.
So. I have one program, LuaMacros.
This can read keyboards and determine which emoji the user wants.
And I have the other program, which, when we already know which emoji the user wants,
that can type.
So it was time to bid. This is how the keyboard works:
You press a key. LuaMacros intercepts that on the way in,
stop Windows from actually typing the letter or what is underneath it.
It determines which number emoji you want and stores this number in a file on the disk.
Then it presses the F24 key. Yes, there is an F24 test.
He is not on my keyboard and it is almost certainly not on your keyboard,
but it is still a test that Windows can use thanks to backwards compatibilty.
AutoHotKey is listening to that F24 key and when it hears it,
he reads the file that LuaMacros has created to store the number,
and look for that number in the emoji list and type this emoji!
That's how the emoji keyboard works and that's why I use Windows.
And that is the art of bidding!
One take!
Thank you Matt!
Translated by Gilbert